chor(Nerdgraph): Metric Normalization Rule (#19415)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/nerdgraph-metric-normalization-rule.mdx

The metric normalization rules are used to:

    * Group or filter out [metric timeslice data](/docs/data-apis/understand-data/new-relic-data-types/#timeslice-data).
    * Manage high cardinality metrics by renaming, dropping, or transforming them before they're ingested into New Relic. 
    * Prevent [MGIs](/docs/new-relic-solutions/solve-common-issues/troubleshooting/metric-grouping-issues) to ensure that your metrics are well-organized and meaningful.
    * Reduce the number of unique metric names reported to New Relic.

## Requirements [#review-requirements]

* A [New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup), and with that account, you can access your API user key that you need to include with [queries and mutations](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph).

> * User type and assigned roles can affect your NerdGraph permissions. For more details, see [Factors affecting access](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-structure/factors-affecting-access-features-data#user-permissions).

Reviewer: How is this a requirement?

<Callout variant="tip">

>     You can also create metric normalization rule using New Relic platform. For more information, refer to [Metric normalization rules](/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/ui-data/metric-normalization-rules).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can also create metric normalization rules by using the New Relic platform. For more information, refer to [Metric normalization rules](/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/ui-data/metric-normalization-rules).
```

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>`enable`</td>
            <td>Boolean</td>
            <td>(Required) If set to `true`, only enabled rules are returned.</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

### Sample query

```graphql

    {
        actor {
            user {
            name
            }
            account(id: xxxxxx) {
            metricNormalization {
                metricNormalizationRules(enabled: true) {
                action
                applicationGuid
                applicationName
                createdAt
                enabled
                evalOrder
                id
                matchExpression
                notes
                replacement
                terminateChain
                }
            }
            }
        }
    }

```

## Mutations [#nerdgraph-mutations]

Manage your metric normalization rules with the following [NerdGraph mutations](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph/#terminology):

<CollapserGroup>

    <Collapser 
    id="create-metric-normalization-rule" 
    title="Create a metric normalization rule"
    >

> Use `metricNormalizationCreateRule` mutation to create a new metric normalization rule in New Relic. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new metric normalization rule in New Relic, use the `metricNormalizationCreateRule` mutation. 
```

### Input parameters

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Attribute name</th>
            <th>Data type</th>
            <th>Description</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>accountId</td>
            <td>String</td>
            <td>(Required) The account ID associated with the rule.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>action</td>
            <td> String </td>
            <td> (Required) Select one of the following action:

>             - `REPLACE`: Replace the metrics that match the `matchExpression` with the value defined in the `replacement`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - `REPLACE`: Replace the metrics that match the `matchExpression` with the value defined in the `replacement` field.
```

>             - `IGNORE`: Block any metrics to reporting to New Relic that match the `matchExpression`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - `IGNORE`: Block any metrics from reporting to New Relic that match `matchExpression`.
```

>             - `DENY_NEW_METRICS`: Prevent the creation of new metric names that match with the `matchExpression`, while allowing existing metric names to continue reporting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - `DENY_NEW_METRICS`: Prevent the creation of new metric names that match `matchExpression`, while allowing existing metric names to continue reporting.
```

            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>applicationGuid</td>
            <td>String</td>
            <td>(Optional) The unique GUID for the application in New Relic. If left blank, this becomes an account-wide rule.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>enabled</td>
            <td>Boolean</td>

>             <td>(Required) If set to `true` to enable the rule.</td>

Reviewer: Something is missing here

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>evalOrder</td>
            <td>Integer</td>
            <td>(Required) Specify the order in which the rule is applied relative to other rules. Lower the numbers, higher the evaluated priority. Recommend value is `2000`</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>matchExpression</td>
            <td>String</td>

>             <td>(Required) Accepts a [regular expression](https://regexone.com/) pattern that matches the metrics to be normalized. This field must start with a `^` and ends with a `$`. It defines a pattern to identify which metrics should be affected by the normalization rule. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>(Required) Accepts a [regular expression](https://regexone.com/) pattern that matches the metrics to be normalized. This field must start with a `^` and end with a `$`. It defines a pattern to identify which metrics should be affected by the normalization rule. For example:
```

            ```^WebTransaction/Uri/RESTfulExample/users/username/[a-zA-Z0-9]+$```
            The pattern `^[a-zA-Z0-9]+$` matches any string composed of lowercase characters `(a-z)`, uppercase characters `(A-Z)`, and numbers `(0-9)`. </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>notes</td>
            <td>String</td>
            <td>Additional notes or comments about the normalization rule.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>replacement</td>
            <td>String</td>

>             <td>This field is only required when from the `action` drop-down list `REPLACE` option has selected. It replaces any metric name matched via the `matchExpression`. For example: `WebTransaction/Uri/RESTfulExample/users/username/{username}$`</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>This field is only required when the `REPLACE` option is selected from the `action` drop-down list. It replaces any metric name matched via the `matchExpression`. For example: `WebTransaction/Uri/RESTfulExample/users/username/{username}$`</td>
```

                evalOrder
                id
                matchExpression
                notes
                replacement
                terminateChain
            }
        }
    }

```

### Sample response

```graphql

    {
        "data": {
            "metricNormalizationCreateRule": {
                "errors": [],
                "rule": {
                    "action": "REPLACE",
                    "applicationGuid": "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx",
                    "applicationName": "MetricGroupingIssue",
                    "createdAt": 1743641443000,
                    "enabled": false,
                    "evalOrder": 2000,
                    "id": 29205,
                    "matchExpression": "^WebTransaction/Uri/MGIGenerator_war_exploded/api/MGI/pattern/[a-f0-9]+$",
                    "notes": "rules to replace",
                    "replacement": "WebTransaction/Uri/MGIGenerator_war_exploded/api/MGI/pattern/{guid}",
                    "terminateChain": true
                }
            }
        }
    }

```

    </Collapser>

    <Collapser 
    id="edit-metric-normalization-rule" 
    title="Edit a metric normalization rule">
    

>     Use the `metricNormalizationEditRule` mutation to update the value of existing existing rule using the `ruleId` parameters. It provides a flexibility to adjust the rule as per the new insights or changing requirements. You can fetch `ruleId` information using [`Retrieve the metric normalization rules`](#nerdgraph-query) query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Use the `metricNormalizationEditRule` mutation to update the value of the existing rule using the `ruleId` parameters. It provides flexibility to adjust the rule as per the new insights or changing requirements. You can fetch `ruleId` information using [`Retrieve the metric normalization rules`](#nerdgraph-query) query.
```

### Input parameters

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Attribute name</th>
            <th>Data type</th>
            <th>Description</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>accountId</td>
            <td>String</td>
            <td>(Required) The account ID associated with the rule.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>action</td>
            <td>String</td>
            <td>(Required) Select one of the following action:

>             - `REPLACE`: Replace the metrics that match the `matchExpression` with the value defined in the `replacement`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - `REPLACE`: Replace the metrics that match `matchExpression` with the value defined in `replacement`.
```

>             - `IGNORE`: Block any metrics to reporting to New Relic that match the `matchExpression`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - `IGNORE`: Block any metrics from reporting to New Relic that match `matchExpression`.
```

            - `DENY_NEW_METRICS`: Prevent the creation of new metric names that match with the `matchExpression`, while allowing existing metric names to continue reporting.
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>applicationGuid</td>
            <td>String</td>
            <td>(Optional) The unique GUID for the application in New Relic. If left blank, this becomes an account-wide rule.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>enabled</td>
            <td>Boolean</td>

>             <td>(Required) If set to `true` to enable the rule.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>(Required) To enable the rule, set to `true`.</td>
```

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>evalOrder</td>
            <td>Integer</td>
            <td>(Required) Specify the order in which the rule is applied relative to other rules. Lower the numbers, higher the evaluated priority. Recommend value is `2000`</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>id</td>
            <td>String</td>
            <td>(Required) The `ruleId` of the metric rule for which you want to update the value. </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>matchExpression</td>
            <td>String</td>

>             <td>(Required) Accepts a [regular expression](https://regexone.com/) pattern that matches the metrics to be normalized. This field must start with a `^` and ends with a `$`. It defines a pattern to identify which metrics should be affected by the normalization rule. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>(Required) Accepts a [regular expression](https://regexone.com/) pattern that matches the metrics to be normalized. This field must start with a `^` and end with a `$`. It defines a pattern to identify the metrics to be affected by the normalization rule. For example:
```

            ```^WebTransaction/Uri/RESTfulExample/users/username/[a-zA-Z0-9]+$```
            The pattern `^[a-zA-Z0-9]+$` matches any string composed of lowercase characters `(a-z)`, uppercase characters `(A-Z)`, and numbers `(0-9)`. </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>notes</td>
            <td>String</td>
            <td>Additional notes or comments about the normalization rule.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>replacement</td>
            <td>String</td>

>             <td>This field is only required when from the `action` drop-down list `REPLACE` option is selected. It replaces any metric name matched via the `matchExpression`. For example: `WebTransaction/Uri/RESTfulExample/users/username/{username}$`</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>This field is only required when the `REPLACE` option is selected from the `action` drop-down list. It replaces any metric name that matches `matchExpression`. For example: `WebTransaction/Uri/RESTfulExample/users/username/{username}$`</td>
```
